act syntax description (#57)
ethereum/act: docs/act.md

`constructor` and a set of `behaviours`.

The `constructor` specification defines the structure of the contract
state, the initial value for the state, and a list of invariants that
the contract should satisfy.

Each `behaviour` specification determines how a contract method updates
the state, and its return value, and the conditions that must be
satisfied in order for it to be applied.

Alternatively, they can be thought of an initial state and a 
set of state transitions, determining an inductively defined 
state transition system.

The specifications can be exported to different backends in order to
prove that the claims that are being made hold with respect to an implementation.

This document is a high level description of the syntax of 
act specifications.
For a more formal treatment of the syntax, study the
definitions of [RefinedAst.hs](https://github.com/ethereum/act/blob/master/src/RefinedAst.hs).

## Contructor

A `constructor` specification is indicated by the
`constructor of <contractName>` header, as in:
```act
constructor of A
```

A constructor section consists of the following fields:

### interface

Specifying the arguments the constructor takes.
Example:
```act

> interface constructor(uint _owner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface constructor(address _owner)
```

```

### iff (optional)

The conditions that must be satisfied in order for the contract to be created.
These must be necessary and sufficient conditions, in the sense that if any 
condition isn't met, the contract cannot be created.

Example:
```act
iff

CALLER == _owner
```

### creates
Defines the storage layout of the contract.

Example:
```act

creates

  uint256 totalSupply := _totalSupply

>   mapping(address => uint) balanceOf :=  [CALLER := _totalSupply]

Reviewer: would be nice to have a little info on the allowed types here, as well as the initializer list syntax.

```

### External storage changes (optional)

If the contract creation updates the state of other contracts,
they should be specified as:

```act
contract B
   x => x + 1

contract C
   y => y - 1
```

### Ensures (optional)

A list of predicates that should hold over the poststate.
Example:
```act

ensures

   x == _x
```

### Invariants (optional)

A list of predicates over the state of the contract that should hold before and after
every contract invocation:

```act
invariants

  totalSupply = initialSupply
  _k = x * y
```

## Behaviour

A `behaviour` specification is indicated by the
`behaviour of <contractName>` header, as in:
```act
constructor of A
```

and consists of the following fields:

### interface

Specifying which method the behaviour refers to.
Example:
```act

> interface transfer(address to, uint value)

Reviewer: we should note the allowed types here

```

### iff (optional)

The conditions that must be satisfied in order for the transition to apply.
These must be necessary and sufficient conditions, in the sense that if any 
condition isn't met, a call to the given method must revert.

Example:
```act
iff

  balanceOf[CALLER] >= value
  CALLVALUE == 0
```

> ### cases and state updates

Reviewer: Maybe worth adding a note that either `returns` or `storage` are required, but not both?

# Syntax of the Act language

A specification of a contract written in `act` consists of a
`constructor` and a set of `behaviours`.

The `constructor` specification defines the structure of the contract
state, the initial value for the state, and a list of invariants that
the contract should satisfy.

Each `behaviour` specification determines how a contract method updates
the state, and its return value, and the conditions that must be
satisfied in order for it to be applied.

Alternatively, they can be thought of an initial state and a
set of state transitions, determining an inductively defined
state transition system.

The specifications can be exported to different backends in order to
prove that the claims that are being made hold with respect to an implementation.

This document is a high level description of the syntax of
act specifications.
For a more formal treatment of the syntax, study the
definitions of [RefinedAst.hs](https://github.com/ethereum/act/blob/master/src/RefinedAst.hs).

## Types

The types of Act consist of three basic primitives:
Integers, Booleans and ByteStrings. Integers are unbounded,
with true integer operations. However, as our integer expressions

> will often represent words in the EVM, we allow ourselves a slight
> abuse of notation and denote by `uintN` integers together with the
> constraint that the value fits into a `uintN`.

Author: ```suggestion
will often represent words in the EVM, we allow ourselves a slight
abuse of notation and denote by `uintN/intN` integers together with the
constraint that the value fits into a `uintN/intN`.
```

the state, and its return value, and the conditions that must be
satisfied in order for it to be applied.

Alternatively, they can be thought of an initial state and a
set of state transitions, determining an inductively defined
state transition system.

The specifications can be exported to different backends in order to
prove that the claims that are being made hold with respect to an implementation.

This document is a high level description of the syntax of
act specifications.
For a more formal treatment of the syntax, study the
definitions of [RefinedAst.hs](https://github.com/ethereum/act/blob/master/src/RefinedAst.hs).

## Types

> The types of Act are made up from three basic primitives:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The types of Act consist of three basic primitives:
```

Integers, Booleans and ByteStrings. Integers are unbounded,
with true integer operations. However, as our integer expressions
will often represent words in the EVM, we allow ourselves a slight
abuse of notation and denote by `uintN` integers together with the

> constraint that the value fits into a `uintN`.

Reviewer 2: Is this also valid for `int`?

Author: yes. The semantics then is that `x : intN` is `x : int s.t. 2 ^ (N - 1) <= x < 2 ^ (N -1 )`

Author: will add to clarify

> Using conventional abi types for typing also allows us to specify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using conventional ABI types for typing also allows us to specify
```

function signatures in a concise way.

As an example consider the specification of overflow safe addition:

```act
behaviour add of SafeMath
interface add(uint x, uint y)

iff in range uint

   x + y

returns x + y
```

In more verbose terms, this specification would read:

Given any pair of integers x and y, s.t. 0 <= x < 2^256 and

> 0 <= y < 2^256, an abiencoded call to the contract `SafeMath`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
0 <= y < 2^256, an ABI encoded call to the contract `SafeMath`
```
